Hi. My name is John Rotenstein,
and I'm with AWS Training
and Certification.
I'm here today to tell you
about Amazon Rekognition.
I'll be doing it
through a number of
hands-on demonstrations,
and at the end, there's even
a self-paced lab where you
can try it for yourself.
My demonstration is divided
into three sections.
First of all, I'll be
telling you how to use
Rekognition with still images.
Take a photo, send
it to Rekognition,
and recognize faces and even
objects within the picture.
The second part will be
showing you how you can
use Rekognition with video files.
So you can upload a video to S3,
send it to Rekognition,
and you can say,
"Hey, I found these various
people within the video."
The third part, we'll be
working with streaming video,
where you can send
streaming video to
Rekognition and it can detect
objects in that streaming video
and you can react
to it in real-time.
So let's begin.
So in this first section,
I'll be showing you
how you can use
still images with Rekognition.
To demonstrate features,
I'll actually be sending
a continuous stream of images to
Rekognition to show
you what it can do.
For my first demonstration,
I'll show you how Rekognition can
detect faces within an image.
So here I've got my computer
capturing the video,
sending it to Rekognition,
and coming back and saying, "Hey,
I can see a face here."
It's drawing a border
around my face
and if I smile, it turns green.
If I frown, it turns red.
Now, this also works
for multiple people.
Folks, do you want
to come on here?
So it can detect multiple
faces within the same frame.
So everyone smile.
Look unhappy.
Fantastic. Thank you.
So how did that
demonstration work?
So here is a sample
of the code that
I used for that.
It's very simple.
What it does is it
captures an image from
my built-in webcam on my
computer, it then shrinks it.
The reason I shrink it is,
Rekognition only needs
about 100 pixels
to be able to detect a face,
and there's no need to send
a big picture across
all that bandwidth.
So I shrink it down in size,
I sent it to Rekognition,
and call the detect
faces command.
Detect faces can either
point to an image in
S3 or you can send it the
actual image from your code.
Then Rekognition comes
back with a whole load of
information about the
faces it saw in the image.
Here is an example of the
information that comes back.
In my case, I used
a bounding box to
draw a rectangle around
each of the phases,
but you also get
information back about,
was a person wearing glasses,
were they smiling, do
they have a mustache,
and what's the agenda?
So you can collect a lot of
information from
just a still image.
So for my second demonstration,
I'd like to show you
how you can recognize
a face within a picture.
You do this by building
something called
a face collection.
Let me demonstrate.
So here, I'm sending my
picture to Rekognition,
and it's saying who it thinks
it detects in the picture.
So in this case,
it's saying John.
I might now ask somebody else to
come into the frame and
see if we can detect.
It's saying, "Oh. I think that
person is Sean" Fantastic.
Art, do you want to hop in?
It's saying Art. Now, if you have
more than one person
in the picture,
it actually detects
the largest face.
So if I come closer to
the camera, it's John.
But if Art comes
closer, it says, "No.
The biggest person is Art."
That's Searching faces
from the face collection.
So here's the code behind
that demonstration.
What it does is it captures
that picture once again,
it then sends it
across to Rekognition,
and calls the search
faces by Image command.
It looks through a
face collection.
I'll show you in a moment how to
put a face into a collection.
Rekognition then comes back
with which face it saw,
the name of that face,
and I simply displayed on
screen who it said it was.
If you have multiple people
within the same frame,
it will only choose the
person with the largest face.
The information comes back
like this and it says, "Hey.
I found John and I'm
99 percent confident
that it was John."
For my third demo,
Rekognition has
the ability to detect
text within the image.
So in this case, I'm
going to show it
an image and it will read
the text that it can see.
So now I'm sending the
frame to Rekognition,
and it will detect
text in the picture.
So here's my backpack.
Let's see what it
can see on there.
So it's detecting the word
Amazon on the backpack.
Fantastic or here is a
white marker I've go.
It should be able
to read also there.
It says whiteboard marker,
and as I move the pen
around the screen,
it will track and move
the text with it.
So in that demonstration,
you saw how I showed
some text on the screen that
was coming back from Rekognition.
It came back a bit like this.
It comes back in a JSON object
and shows me the text that
was there and it shows
me where it was
found on the screen.
Rekognition not only returns
each individual word,
it can return a line of text.
So if you're not interested
in where the text is placed,
be interested in everything
that it's saying,
then it will return that
information to you as well.
In all, Rekognition has quite
a few API calls you can
make to find things in
pictures for detecting faces,
detecting texts, and searching
faces by image. They're
the ones I showed you.
It can also find
objects in an image,
find me a skate board,
find me a bottle.
It can also recognize
celebrities.
So if you want to look through
video or look through picture,
and find somebody who's famous,
it can do that for you.
It can also detect
adult contents.
So if you have a
picture and you want to
make sure that it doesn't
have anything that shouldn't
be shown to the public,
it can automatically do so.
So now in Part 2,
I'd like to show you how
Rekognition can go through
a video file and detect
faces that it finds
in that video.
The use case I'm showing
here is I've got
a very large video file and
the file has lots of
different people in there.
I would like to take
that large video
and automatically
create a new video,
which is just showing
one particular person.
So to do this, Rekognition
will have to go
through the video,
find each person,
output the information,
and let me splice
it together again.
I'll show you what it looks like.
Here, I have my source video.
You can see in here many
different people's faces
are showing up in the video.
The output will be
something like this.
Here is a video showing Eddie,
all the scenes with Eddie
appearing in that video.
So how was it done?
Well, the first thing
I did is I captured
a picture of each of
the people that were in
the video and I use
this command called
create-collection which
created a face collection.
In this case, I
call them trainers.
Then, I had a picture of
each person and I added it
into the collection using
this index-faces command,
which points to a picture in
S3, and I give it a name.
In this case, John, saying,
this is a picture of John
and Rekognition will
associate that external
image ID with that picture.
It's also worth mentioning
Rekognition does
not store that image,
rather it looks at the image,
it finds the face in the image,
and it looks at the
attributes of the face.
Where are the eyes,
where's the nose,
where's the mouth,
and it builds a
mathematical vector of
the face and that is
the only thing that
is stored in Rekognition.
Once Rekognition
has those pictures,
I can then tell it to
please analyze the video.
So I use this command,
which is the start
face search command.
It says, "Please go off to S3,
grab this video for me,
and compare it to the face
collection called trainers."
It then goes off and looks for
all of the faces
within the video.
Let me demonstrate.
So the first step is to
create a face collection,
and I'll do it with this
create-collection command.
So this is saying
please create me
a collection called trainers.
The next step is to take a
face which is stored in S3,
and say please edit
to the collection.
So here I have a
command that is saying,
please take an image called John,
and load into that
trainers collection,
and it comes back with a
whole lot of information.
In this case it's
saying I found a face
within that image and here
is a bounding box around it.
Here is the nose.
Here's the mouth, also here
is the pitch and yaw of
the face so it can tell
if a face is looking
left looking right
looking up etc.
This is very good for mapping
attributes on the face
in case you want to make
it look like somebody is
wearing a mask or a funny face.
So I have now loaded
a number of faces.
You can see here there is
an image tagged as John,
an image tagged as Edward,
and an image tagged
with Karthik, and MJ.
So there are now four faces
in my face collection.
So the next thing I have
to do is ask rekognition
to please go through the
video and find the faces,
and I do that with this
start-face-search command.
This command tells rekognition
to stop a process in the video,
but it can take a long time so it
comes back with a job ID,
and I can go back to
it later and say,
''Please give me the output
for this particular job.''
So rekognition has now finished
processing that video,
and I can run this
get-face-search command
to retrieve the results
of that search,
and lots of information
appears here on screen.
What it's doing is it's
returning for various
different timestamps,
who it has seen.
So here it saying it this
particular timestamp,
I can see that Edward
appeared in there and
rekognition is a 100 percent
confident that he is there.
So it's now going to tell me for
each timestamp who
appeared in the frame.
What it will give me once
it's finished is
output like this,
and it's showing me
for each timestamp
within the video who did it see.
Now there's lots and lots
of timestamps in the video.
It's several minutes long, and
you can see from this output
that its giving me information
every second or so.
So it will give me
an awful lot of
information about who
it saw in the video.
My challenge is to take all of
this information about where
people appear in the video,
and output another video
just showing one
particular person,
and to do that I'll be using
an Amazon product called
Amazon Elastic
Transcoder which is
a service that can
transcode video files,
and one of the capabilities
it has is clip stitching,
and what this means is I can say,
go to this video at this
particular timestamp and
grab x seconds of video
and keep doing it,
and so will grab different
bits of video and
splice them together for
me into one single video.
My challenge in this
case is that rekognition
outputs the timestamps when
it sees a particular person.
So it says John is
here here here.
Whereas Elastic Transcoder
just wants to know
when to begin and
how long to record.
So I've got to convert
this format of
timestamps into
individual scenes.
So I wrote a little
Python program that says,
hey John appears at these
particular timestamps,
let's convert it into scenes.
If he disappears for more than a
second let's end that scene,
and start it again
when he reappears,
or if he appears for less than
a second let's skip
over that scene
because we don't
want the video to be
too jerky cutting
in and cutting out.
So the result of that was we
had an input video that
had lots of people.
We created a face
collection which taught
it the faces of the various
people in that video.
We then said produce me
a new video with just
one specific person,
and Elastic Transcoder
gave me a video file.
One for each of the
people I requested.
So pretty nice demonstration
of how you can
recognize faces
within rekognition,
and then use Elastic
Transcoder to
create a new video from
that source video.
If you're interested
in how this worked,
there is a blog post
available on our machine
learning blog posts.
It's called automated video
editing with you as the star,
and that will give
you an overview of
how this demonstration
was produced,
and if you want to try
it yourself we also have
a hands-on lab by the same name.
Where you can go off and try
the exact same steps that
I have demonstrated.
Here is an overview
of the commands
you can use with
rekognition video.
I showed you the
start-face-search command
where it looked for
faces within the video.
You can also recognize
celebrities,
look for objects within there,
and person tracking this way it
can say hey a person
walked into the scene,
and they walked cross the screen.
They disappeared and then they
came back into the video again,
and you can track them throughout
that whole video process.
So that is using rekognition
on video files stored in S3,
and the third part that
I would like to show you
is using rekognition
streaming video.
Now you don't stream
the video to rekognition
you actually
stream video to our Amazon
Kinesis Video product,
and Kinesis captures
every video frame,
and it then sends that
frame to rekognition,
and rekognition then performs
the same analysis that
I've shown you so far.
So it might pass back
and say hey I've just
seen John in that
streaming video.
So to show you how this works
I'd like to give you
a bit of a demo.
In this case we set up
a video camera showing
people's faces.
We passed it through
Amazon Video Rekognition
using Amazon Kinesis Video,
and used it to trigger a light.
Now why do you want
to turn a light?
Imagine you might be opening
a door to your home when you
show your face in front
of the video camera,
and in this case I
have my fellow trainer Navjot
showing his face to the camera,
and you'll see if that
the light turns on.
I then sit down showed my face,
and unfortunately the
light did not turn on.
I can't gain access to the house,
and just to prove it works
Navjot sat down once again,
and the light turned on.
So this gives you a bit
of an idea of how you can
use streaming video
to trigger things,
and there wasn't very much
code at all to make this work.
The first step is we set up
a live video stream into
Amazon Kinesis Video.
It then sent each frame to
Amazon Rekognition
Video which analyzed
the frame and looked for
certain people's faces.
It compared those faces against
the previously created
face collection.
In this case with Navjot's face.
It then outputs that information
in an Amazon Kinesis Stream,
and that stream has
all that information.
I saw a face on this location,
it was this particular
person's face.
Then we used a feature called
Amazon Kinesis Analytics,
and what it does is it looks
at the streaming information
coming through the
Amazon Kinesis stream,
and we said hey look
for the name of Navjot
being successfully recognized
in the video image.
When his face was detected,
we triggered an AWS Lambda
function that went out and said
hey IoT turn on the light
bulb or open my front door.
Now you might want to be a little
bit careful because you could
theoretically open the front door
by holding up somebody's face.
So you might want
to do it so they
have to rotate their face,
and make sure they're alive human
being before you let
them into your house.
So hopefully you've
learned something
about Amazon Rekognition today.
First of all we saw how you
can use it with still images,
how you can use it with
images stored in Amazon S3,
and how you can use it
with streaming videos.
So hopefully you'll
recognize me John,
as I walk down the street
in future. Thank you.